our next guest is raising questions
about judicial reform in the country
through the pages of a suspense novel in
point guard author edwin j spray asked
the question what if the American court
system operated on a point system and
EDD joins us in the studio this morning
so you wrote a book head about that it
took a long time didn't you did it took
about 13 years well sometimes good
writing takes a while to get it all done
and it was an infamous story that really
got the ball rolling for you what was it
you know III like most Americans i sat
down and watched the trial was kind of a
real life better than fiction the oj
simpson trial right and just the fiasco
that was going on in the courtroom I
just thought my goodness this just can't
be there's got to be a better way
there's got to be a better why does the
point system work well it's kind of like
the Pennsylvania driver's license system
you create a particular crime violent
crime is and you and you get points and
those points are irrevocable and the
sentences that are charged to it or non
paroled you can't get out for good
behavior or anything like that and
that's kind of the basis behind the
novel right I know a lot of people will
say well three strikes it sounds like
three strikes similar in some ways
different in others yeah it is but it
isn't it's in fact it's significantly
different the three strikes program
really didn't get adopted by all the
states and and it really isn't just for
violent crime intended for but not
necessarily use that way there's a lot
of ambiguity in the law today all right
there's a lot of it's fiction but
sometimes fiction there's a lot of truth
in it how much is truth did you beg
borrow and steal from other cases you
put it all together you know we've had
people call us and say you know this
sounds a little like this haven't we
been down this road before you know I've
had friends call me up and say hey I
recognize that conversation you know
those kinds of things you know I've had
a pretty fun life so we kind of
incorporated some of that stuff but you
change the names I assumed to all have
to you say guilty absolutely all right
let's start with the storyline in the in
the driveway Tina and and Mike or having
a husband and wife are having a nice
conversation I they're making out to
write the in the car well they're in the
car are having a nice moment between the
two of them and they're gonna have a
real good moment later on I was going
upstairs to get ready but she doesn't
make it there would happen well in a
drive-by shooting is what happens and
and Mike Lane who's the character in
in the book Mike Lane wants to avenge
her her murder so he goes on a quest to
do so and part of that quest is
rewriting law and he writes up basically
a stunning legal document that has the
opportunity to and potentially changed
the American legal system well that's a
good thing but he can't do it by himself
he needs some help from her a
congressional representative in this
case a senator that's correct and the
senator helps somewhat but then takes
steals his thunder what else the senator
takes takes his uh his document and
decides that he's going to help him and
that basically unravels the world of
political corruptness and and puts Mike
Lane and a significant spot of danger so
what does he do about it I can't say I
know you don't want anything I can't I
can't tell you too much about about
about the book of than that we've what's
interesting about the novel and remember
it's a novel it's a story but we've got
readers contacting me all the time
saying things like how come wall can't
be black and white like that that that
makes sense well we ought to be
seriously thinking about that well I
know you want to entertain people and
you've done that you've succeeded with
that but you're an idealist do you want
things to be a certain way have you
really presented this book or your ideas
to a real-life congressman or senator
and say sir man you ought to consider
this well we have some validity here we
haven't yet i mean there's certainly
some some constitutional issues when it
comes to getting lost past and things
like that but our goal is to get it in
the hands of some folks and that can
make an impact and give an opportunity
to read and go yeah that kind of makes a
little bit of sint la be a law make sure
why not maybe you and I can get up there
and and and move the the American
American judicial system so much well I
think most people would agree to a
certain extent the American judicial
system is broken I mean is it broken to
the point that we need this kind of an
overhaul too but you know I think so I
think so I think there needs to be
significant change done somebody's got
to do something you just can't go and
get away with the things that were
getting away with today and I think
someone needs to do something about it
yeah aside from the book are you
shopping around a movie deal any chance
of that you know yeah there's the
potential of that happening working on
an outline for a second book so you know
just getting rolling with this thing so
hopefully folks enjoy the book and
and support it well you have some good
momentum going already ed Sprague is the
author of point guard i gotta tell you
them get a shot of us close together
here the guys in the room are like they
think we're brothers in some way thank
goodness you were a different color tide
is one of that we may have the same
tailor the sensor just about the same
congratulations on the book are okay so
thank you very much time for water